# openvpn-netns-systemd
Executable files for executing arbitrary commands in a seperate OpenVPN namespace.

## Description
This project contains files for executing arbitrary commands in OpenVPN namespaces.
VPNs established in a namespace **do not** affect the global network stack, so that the main network connection of the running machine can remain unaffected.


It does **not** use veth pairs, but instead moves the _tun_ device into the new namespace.
It is possible to run multiple VPN namespaces seperatly (in seperate terminals), without polluting the local network configuration.

It is even possible to nest VPN connections (Your PC -> VPN 1 -> VPN 2 -> public internet).

## Usage
### Shell Usage

    ./vpn-exec <VPN conf> <command>

eg

    ./vpn-exec /etc/openvpn/France.conf sudo -u johndoe firefox

This will create a vpn connection to France and execute _firefox_ in the new _vpn-France_ namespace. It ensures that any traffic generated by this instance of firefox is tunnelled over VPN, but it does not affect the networking configuration of the running system. 

(Note: In the example above, it is necessary to close other running instances of firefox, to ensure our firefox process does not bind to another in the global network namespace)

The _vpn-exec_ script can be executed multiple times in different terminals, effectively putting each terminal in a different VPN.


To nest VPN connections, simply execute the _vpn-exec_ script again, while in a _vpn-exec <conf> /bin/bash_ session.

### Systemd Usage

The VPN scripts are implemented as systemd units.

The example __daily-backup.timer__ and __daily-backup.service__ show how to leverage this to implement a timed backup script through VPN without affecting the global network namespace.
Given an openvpn configuration file /etc/openvpn/office.conf

    systemctl start openvpn-ns@office.service
    

Using the new network namespaces from above:

    sudo ip netns exec vpn-office <command>
    
eg.

    sudo ip netns exec vpn-office /bin/bash
    su - <user>
    firefox

## Stopping the VPN namespace

    systemctl stop openvpn-ns@<VPN>.service

or to stop all:

    systemctl stop 'openvpn-ns@*'

    

